Introduction to the report Ernst and Young prepares and submits the Due Diligence report to the UNIDO as per Terms of Reference (TOR), assessing the extent to which the Cinnamon Training Academy Ltd (CTA) comply with the required levels of conformity criteria , in terms of legal and financial aspects since establishment of the CTA. Therefore, this report covers legal and financial aspects that are fundamentally important in establishment and continuous operations of a public limited organization; identifying the requirements that ensure the sustainability of CTA in terms of legal and finance perspectives. Each area covered under the due diligence activity summarizes Ernst & Young’s observations and remarks if any. The Due Diligence was conducted in accordance with the Company Act, Inland Revenue Act, applicable Accounting Standards and all other relevant legal and financial standards that are mandatory to comply with by any public limited company. Our observations and conclusions are derived based on the information provided by CTA and the final draft was prepared based on the agreed upon procedures with UNIDO. 1.1 Purpose of legal due diligence Our objective of carrying out legal due diligence for Cinnamon Training Academy (CTA) is to understand and evaluate whether CTA has complied with all necessary legal requirements during its establishment, operations and other business activities. Our Observation Has Cinnamon Training Academy (CTA) followed An application has been duly submitted for the correct procedures mentioned in the the incorporation of CTA to the Registrar in Company’s Act 2007 during its incorporation? the prescribed form signed by each of the initial shareholders, together with the other required documents. The following documents have been submitted 1. A declaration stating that the name of the company is not identical or similar to that of an existing company 2. The articles of association of the company 3. Consent from each of the initial directors 4. Consent from the initial secretary Is the name of Cinnamon Training Academy Ltd CTA has obtained the Incorporation there in the company register? Does it have a Certificate from the Company Registrar and unique number? Does CTA have certificate of has a unique number. incorporation in the prescribed form? Does the certificate of incorporation give a clear He incorporation certificate clearly indicates idea as to which type of company CTA is? For that CTA is a limited liability company. example, limited company, unlimited company, private company etc. Has CTA been registered as a voluntary or CTA has been registered as a profit making Generally, service nonprofit making organization? organization. oriented organizations of this nature are registered as nonprofit making organizations. Has CTA re-registered the Company under the CTA has re-registered under the new Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 and what is the Company Act and the new number is PB 635. new Registration No. of CTA after reregistration? Does Cinnamon Training Academy always use As per our observation CTA uses its name “Limited” at the end of its name to reflect the with “Limited” at the end of the name. legal form of the organization? Has CTA had its company name and number As per our observation all documents clearly stated in all its business letters of the prepared and issued by the CTA carry its company, all notices and other official name along with its company number. publications, all invoices, receipts and letters of credit, all other documents issued or signed by the company which creates or is evidence of a legal obligation of the company and all bills of exchange, promissory notes, endorsements, cheques and orders for money or goods signed on behalf of the company Has CTA its name displayed in its registered The company name is not displayed in the The name should be office clearly? registered office. clearly displayed in the registered office. Does content of the Article clearly show the The article of association comprehensively objects of CTA; rights & obligations of presents CTA’s objects; rights and obligations shareholders of CTA; Management & of shareholders; Management and administration of CTA administration. Does Primary Objects authorize CTA to engage There is no Primary Object authorizing Growing or processing of in growing or processing of Cinnamon? growing or processing of Cinnamon by CTA. Cinnamon by CTA is outside its scope as per the Articles of Association. Are there any pre-incorporation contracts that CTA has entered in to? Our Observation Has CTA given duly notice to the company They have submitted the relevant documents registrar in the prescribed form of the number with the detailed mentioned in a prescribed of shares, company’s stated share capital form and adhered to the provisions of Company Act. Has shareholders of CTA passed any Special No special resolution has been passed as per Resolution and if so, then for what purpose? the meeting minutes. Has CTA issued the shares to each shareholder They have issued the shares to the named in the application for incorporation? shareholders whose names appeared in the application. Has CTA given a notice in the prescribed form of The change of registered office from Kosgoda the change of registered office to the Registrar? to Rosmead Place, Colombo 07 has been informed to company Registrar in writing as per the requirements in Company Act. As per our observation and understanding there is no such previous contracts entered in to by the CTA before incorporation. Does CTA keep the following documents at its registered office? a. The certificate of incorporation and the articles of the company b. minutes of all meetings and resolutions of shareholders passed within the last ten years c. an interests register d. minutes of all meetings held and resolutions of directors passed and directors’ committees held within the last ten years CTA possesses necessary documentation in its registered office. Key focus areas Has CTA delivered to the Registrar an annual Yes, CTA has delivered the annual returns to return in the prescribed form every year after the company registrar on time. its incorporation? Has the CTA board of directors called an annual CTA has had the AGM on time every year general meeting of shareholders in each along with the AGM of the Spice Council. calendar year as per the instructions given in Company’s Act? Has CTA appointed its auditor based on the CTA has followed the guidelines given in the procedures given in the company’s act? And is company’s act. The auditor is a member of the auditor a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and is a Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and is a registered auditor. registered auditor? Has CTA board within six months after the Annual Reports are prepared and kept in balance sheet date of the company, prepared an place. annual report on the affairs of the company? Has the CTA submitted the signed copies of the CTA has submitted the signed auditor’s auditor’s reports to the registrar on time? reports to the Company Registrar on time. Has CTA fulfilled the minimum number of As per our observation CTA Ltd has the Although CTA BOD directors? Does the Articles of Association of minimum number of directors in the BOD. consists of minimum CTA stipulate qualifications for a Director? Do number of directors, it the Directors meet the No qualification is required to become a lacks a healthy and requirements/qualifications given? Is the Director unless so fixed by CTA at a General balanced composition composition of BOD suitable for CTA? meeting. that reflects variety of competencies and capacities that are fundamentally important to make an educational institute viable in the market place. Has CTA entered in to any contract with any outside party which makes CTA binding legally? If yes, is it as per the Company’s Act of Sri Lanka? Our Observation As per our observation CTA has entered into an agreement with Export Development Board (SLEDB) to obtain the funds from the government for the purpose of construction of the academy. A bank guarantee amounting to Rs. 5.7 Mn has been obtained from National Development Bank to facilitate this transaction. It is noted that CTA is legally bound to fulfill the conditions mentioned in NDB agreement(Offer letter) CTA is obliged to comply with SLEDB conditions when carrying out the CTA construction work. Does the Articles of Association of CTA restrict Yes. A member can transfer shares only to (a) the transfer of shares? A Director, (b) Another member, (c) Spouse or child, or (d) any other person approved by the BOD. Share held by a foreign collaborator can be transferred only to a member of CTA. Does the Articles of Association limit Borrowing There is no limit on the borrowing powers of powers of the BOD? the BOD. Has CTA registered any charges on its assets There are no charges recorded as at and if so, for purposes? 2013/12/13 on its assets in the Charge Register Has CTA followed the correct legal procedures CTA has followed the correct legal procedure during the acquisition of the land for its to acquire the land and the ownership of the business purpose? Have the correct documents land has properly passed into CTA. been submitted to the company secretary? 1.2 Legal due diligence Conclusion As per our study, Cinnamon Training Academy as a public limited company has followed the required procedures during incorporation and there are no significant discrepancies found in the process. CTA has acquired its land through a correct legal procedure and the legal documents are physically available with the CTA management. CTA has not yet fully started its operations since incorporation. Therefore no employees have been recruited so far. Hence, legal requirement for EPF (Employee’s Provident Fund), ETF (Employee’s Trust Fund) deposits has not arisen at this point in time. CTA has duly paid the tax payments to the government and all relevant tax documents are properly documented. However, CTA is recommended to pay attention to the following areas going forward. It is observed that the present Board of Directors comprises members who bring in industry expertise to CTA. Limiting of board members only for one or few specific expertise areas might have an adverse impact on CTA’s performance due to lack of varied nature of skills and competencies such as Marketing, Finance , academic / professional education etc. The Board of Directors composition should be of well balanced to support its long term objectives and the purpose of the overall business goal. CTA’s primary objective as per the article of association is to provide required training needs to the people who are engaged in Cinnamon industry. If CTA has any plans to act beyond the primary objectives in order to search for alternative sources of revenues with the intention of ensuring future sustainability, they may consider possible adjustments to the articles of association by passing a special resolution. Currently CTA operates through the funds received by the government and non government organizations. 2.1 Purpose of finance due diligence Our objective of carrying out the finance due diligence for Cinnamon Training Academy (CTA) is to understand the current financial position and to evaluate the financial sustainability of the company. Key focus areas Our Observation Remarks, if any Funding and Donations Has CTA received any donation or funding for the initial activities? Fund to be received UNIDO has agreed to fund US$ 200K and Standards & Trade Development Facility (STDF) agreed to fund US$ 630K for the entire project where they will provide funds for the initial capacity building of CTA. Government of Sri Lanka has allocated Rs 28.5 Mn from the 2013 budget for CTA to carry out the construction work. However, these funds are not direct remits from Treasury department, instead released through the Sri Lanka Export development board (SLEDB). In order to release the advance payment of 20% of the amount, EDB has asked for a bank guarantee from CTA and as a result, CTA has obtained a bank guarantee from National Development bank. Funds Received Further, CTA has received a donation (Tsunami CTA land is situated in a Relief) of Rs 1,234,565/= for establishing the Tsunami affected area. academy from International Federation of Because of this reason, Essential Oils and Aroma Trades (IFEAT); of International Federation which Rs 77,112/= was spent on company of Essential Oils and formation and the balance of Rs 1,157,453/= Aroma Trades (IFEAT) has been accounted as a reserve in the have agreed to provide balance sheet throughout the years. this fund to CTA. Key focus areas Our Observation Remarks, if any Trade and other Receivables Receivables are stated at the amounts they are estimated to realize, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts. CTA does not have trade receivable where receivables comprise of income tax assets, other receivable and cash at bank. Cash at Bank Occasionally the bank account had been in overdraft status. Cash flow forecasting will be a key requirement when the construction project and operation commences. WC Arrangements Currently CTA does not have any working In future CTA is required capital issue. Therefore CTA does not have to have WC arrangements any financial arrangement with a third party. to maintain the liquidity. Capital Structure As per the Article of Association the CTA is an un-geared Authorized Share capital is 500,000 shares company where the (Rs 10/= each.) capital is fully generated through equity and no Cinnamon Trading Academy (CTA) Limited debts. was incorporated on 30/06/2006 with a shareholding of Rs 1,900,000/= and in 20011/12 a new director was appointed and has given shares worth Rs 100,000. The total issued share capital as at 31.03.2013 is Rs 2,000,000. Borrowings CTA has not obtained any borrowing from external parties. 2.2 Finance due diligence Conclusion As per the company auditor’s, SJMS Association opinion, Cinnamon Training Academy (CTA) has prepared its Financial Statements in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and as per the requirements of the Company’s Act No 07 of 2007 with a true and fair view. CTA as an unquoted public limited company does not have an obligation to publish the financial statements to the public. However the annual returns have been prepared and sent to the Company Registrar on time, since incorporation. There have been no major transactions occurred since incorporation other than the purchase of land and revaluation of the land. At present CTA does not have major revenue sources and the other income is generated from the interest on fixed deposits on banks. The operating expenses include tax payments, audit fee, professional charges, bank charges and annual return fee. At present the major funding sources for CTA are as follows: United Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) for the capacity building and infrastructure development Sri Lanka Government is funding for the construction of the academy Unutilized reserve fund of Rs 1.1 Mn donated by IFEAT during the Tsunami Period 28 29 Annexure 01- Statement of Comprehensive Income Annexure 02- Statement of Financial Position clients and for our communities. About EY's Advisory Services
